Today you will meet a very special
company.
And in addition, we will get to know her
from the hand of her CEO, Richy, who in
addition to a good friend of mine,
is an entrepreneur with a huge business
vision, in addition to a great leader.
Richy will tell us what has been the
innovation in the business model
that is allowing them to grow sustainably
more than 30% annually in a very
mature market, such as the wine
market, in which it is very
complicated to grow and win market
share by stealing customers
from your competitors.
After listening to Richy, what
we will do is analyze what
we have learned with
the Business Model Campus tool.
Could you explain to us what
the other innovations have been,
or what the innovations in
the model you consider you
have brought to you?
Look, one of the most important
pillars of our business model,
which represented a very strong
innovation when we started,
was that the world of wine is
a very patrimonialist business.
As we understand it, it is a business
in which the winer has been in
mind that has to have its cellar,
its vineyard, it is a model very
focused on the product or production,
in the jargon of marketing.
And when we started, we realized
that it didn't necessarily
have to be so.
Are the resources required
of a cellar usually?
Which are they?
Well, what we have in mind as normal
is to have the vineyard own, have
the facilities, the cellar with
its deposits, with its barrels
and everything own.
And well, because that's one
of the things we saw that why
it had to be so.
That is, somehow when we
arrived we had a facility
that came from the family
company, in Rio Oje and others,
but we wanted to make
wine in other denominations.
If you have to buy 10 hectares
to build a new project, you have
to invest millions of euros in
facilities, because in some way
it is a limiting of your creativity
and your entrepreneurship.
At the same time we realized, it is
also true that it coincided with
the crisis, the beginning of the
crisis, that was our professional
start, in Spain at that time
and still today, because the cellars
have this mentality, there
was a lot of excess of installed
capacity.
We found many cellars that
had loose capacity in their
facilities and we said,
hear, why not break with
this?
And for us, in some way, which
of the parts we thought
were the most important?
Making a quality product, but it is
not related to having a cellar
of your own.
You can work with a wonderful cellar
and don't necessarily have
to build it yourself or buy it.
Effectively, the customer values
quality, values that you are able
to communicate in some way those
values that the wine has and then,
of course, it is very important,
in such a fragmented sector,
since a commercial team.
That is, for us those three
pillars, quality, sales team
and somehow marketing and
communication, were things
much more important beyond
real estate, than what
was investment.
That was a very important part.
Then we have always spoken
at the business model level
of the concept 360 degrees, which
is somehow that we do not bring
to the market any wine or any
project that has us, on the one
hand, that story, on the other
hand, that label that communicates
it, the four P's, somehow
that are aligned or you need
to have a story that that label
communicates it and that is
aligned also with the strategy
and, finally, the experience.
That is, this is, the fourth leg
is somehow the one we are developing
now, but it is the leg in which
we want that in the world of wine,
which in some way is such an
aspirational world,
that it is representing
the values of the field and
nature, because that also
the consumer has the possibility
to experience
it in the first person.
So that's another of the important
things we consider within
the business model.
We will now analyze what Richie
has told us and we will relate
it to the Business Model Canvas.
The first thing we're going to do
is analyze the business model of
a traditional cellar and Richie
has given us some clue.
He told us that he, his sector,
is present in a very patrimonialist
sector, where cellars have traditionally
put a lot of focus on having
the assets, that is, with
the cellar, what Richie called
Real Estate, the real estate,
or also with the vineyards.
What implications does this have?
Well, the implication is that
in addition to that management,
if you are, if you focus on the
management of the asset, you
can not focus on another series of
things, but above all it limits
your growth because you need
a lot of resources to grow
because you have to finance
the purchase of those assets.
And we will analyze what has been the
innovation in VinTea's business model,
although the truth is that Richie
has made it very easy for us.
Well, the first thing that tells us
is that they have grown in some of the
cases, not always, they have not supported
themselves in the purchase of an asset
cellar or vineyard, what they
have done is to support third companies
that provide them that, therefore,
the assets go from key resources
to a strategic alliance.
And this allows them, in addition
to growing much faster, to be present
in very many denominations
of origin, well, because focusing
on other things that Richie considers
more important, and has told
us several, the quality, the
brand, the distribution channel,
the commercial force, the relationship
with customers, we talked about
making partisans to customers,
well, are the strategic pillars
of VinTea, but that allows it
the fact of being a more flexible
and lighter company, which
does not have to permanently
finance the purchase
and management of those assets,
but that it focuses on what
they consider to be important
really and that ultimately
is the customer.
All this has allowed you not only
to grow much faster, but to bring
a customer value superior
to your competitors.
Why is it?
Because it focuses on that, because
it has analyzed its business model,
it has innovated, it has considered
that, unlike all the cellars in
the world that believe assets
are something vital, they rely
on third companies, so they are
lighter and allows them to
focus on what truly brings
value.
www.vinetec.com